Finding Number of Digits in a Number (#101)
TheAlgorithms/Algorithms-Explanation: en/Basic Math/Finding the number of digits in a number.md

Iteration 3: N not equals to 0
Increment digitsCount, digitsCount = digitsCount + 1.
digitsCount = 2 + 1 = 3.
N = N/10 = 589/10 = 58.

Iteration 4: N not equals to 0
Increment digitsCount, digitsCount = digitsCount + 1.
digitsCount = 3 + 1 = 4.
N = N/10 = 58/10 = 5.

Iteration 5: N not equals to 0
Increment digitsCount, digitsCount = digitsCount + 1.
digitsCount = 4 + 1 = 5.
N = N/10 = 5/10 = 0.

Iteration 6: N becomes equal to 0.
Terminate any further operation.
Return value of digitsCount.

Therefore, number of digits = 5.
```

<div align="center">
  <h2 align="center"> 2nd Solution </h2>
</div>

### Better Solution 
A better solution is to use mathematics to solve this problem. The number of digits in a number say N can be easily obtained by using the following formula:
```
number of digits in N = log10(N) + 1.
```

**Derivation:** Suppose the number of digits in the number **N** is **K**.

Therefore, we can say that:
```
10^(K-1) <= N < 10K
```
Applying base-10 logarithm to both sides in the above equation, we get:
```
K-1 <= log10(N) < K.

or, K - 1 + 1 <= log10(N) + 1 < K + 1
or, K <= log10(N) + 1 < K + 1 
```
Therefore,
```
K = floor(log10(N) + 1)
```

> **Analysis of above algorithm:** The above algorithm uses two mathematical functions: the `logarithm of a number` and the `floor function`. Therefore, it's time complexity depends on the complexity of those two functions. Practically, the `floor function` is always, or can at least easily be made, constant time - all it has to do is; drop the digits behind the decimal point. For practical purposes, one can `assume that the logarithm is constant time` as well, as one will usually be working with fixed width floating point values. If one use `arbitrary precision "big number" libraries` however, logarithm will not be constant anymore: performance will depend on the logarithm algorithms used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Analysis of the above algorithm:** The above algorithm uses two mathematical functions: the `logarithm of a number` and the `floor function`. Therefore, its time complexity depends on the complexity of those two functions. Practically, the `floor function` is always, or can at least easily be made, constant time - all it has to do is: drop the digits behind the decimal point. For practical purposes, one can `assume that the logarithm is constant time` as well, as one will usually be working with fixed-width floating-point values. If one uses `arbitrary-precision "big number" libraries` however, logarithm will not be constant anymore: performance will depend on the logarithm algorithms used.
```
